# Solitary Islands coral demographics

R scripts associated with a manuscript currently under review with the Journal of Animal ecology titled 'The projected degradation of subtropical coral assemblages by recurrent thermal stress'.

In this manuscript we used demographic data, collected from annual surveys of tagged coral colonies in the Solitary Islands Marine Park (SIMP), Australia, to quantify the impact of the 2015/16 thermal stress event within a subtropical setting. Our analyses involved the use of a Integral Projection modelling (IPM) framework and Life Table Response Experient (LTRE) analyses. In this respository we have deposited the script used to format our field data ready for this modelling excerise, which includes estimating size-specific fecundity rates and the adjustment of measured colony sizes to reflect a mismatch in our survey timeframes. Importantly, our IPM framework involved the used of a two-stage model structure with both continuous and discrete size classes, which enabled the inclusion of very large colonies for which we had a limited sample size. Therefore we have also included here scripts detailing how we constructed two-stage IPMs reflecting population dynamics during both bleaching and non-bleaching conditions, and how we tested the sensitivity of our models to the positioning of continuous and discrete stages. Equally we have included a script showing how these IPMs were then used in parameter-level LTRE analyses to identify the driving mechanisms behind any varition between bleaching and non-bleaching models. Finally, we used our IPMs to evaluate the future viability of subtropical corals within the SIMP considering the likley recurrent thermal disturbance regimes expected in this region under different future climate scenarios. We have included in this repository the script we used for extracting future temperature predictions for the Solitary Islands region and translating this into future recurrent thermal stress regimes, and the script used for conducting stochastic IPM simulations.
